Introduction
The term reflection has been used widely in education since the early twentieth century when Dewey (1933, p. 9) proposed the definition that it was a process of ‘active, persistent, and careful consideration of any belief or supposed form of knowledge in the light of the grounds that support it and further conclusions which it tends’. Despite the identified importance of the process for educators, the challenge continues around how to develop these skills and abilities.
It has been identified that many tertiary institutions ‘fall short in allowing opportunities for reflection’ (Barak, 2006, p. 133) and, although students are asked to reflect throughout their degrees, they often graduate with little confidence in this area (Roberts, 2014). To provide an alternaivte focus, it was identified that the increase in the use of technology in higher education settings may provide the solution to some of the problems encountered in the development of reflective skills and abilities.

ePortfolio technology has increased in use in higher education over recent years thanks to mandated use of these tools in the United Kingdom (Joyes, Gray, & Hartnell-Young, 2010) and the enhanced capabilities of these platforms. To date, much of the work related to the use of ePortfolios has been focused on assessment against set criteria or standards (Pelliccione & Dixon, 2008; vonKonsky, Oliver, & Ramdin, 2009), although it has been identified that there is great potential for the use of these platforms as teaching spaces (Barrett, 2005; Chesney & Marcangelo, 2010). To fully explore this potential, a systematic implementation and review process was identified as being required (Roberts, Maor, & Herrington, 2016) with a focus on the pedagogical aspects of the implementation (Shepherd & Hannafin, 2011). Care is needed, however, as ePortfolios are ‘not a panacea’ (Housego & Parker, 2009, p. 409) for the problems associated with the enhancement of reflection. It has been suggested that online teaching and learning environments be established, trialled and reviewed to ensure that the technology is being utilised as an integrated part of the learning process for pre-service teachers and not just added as an extra expectation (R. Phillips, McNaught, & Kennedy, 2012). This was the goal of this research.

This project utilised the eLearning Lifecycle model developed by R. Phillips et al. (2012) as it is a cyclic process of implementation and review specifically for electronic learning environments. The model was implemented in the PebblePad platform to provide an ePortfolio-based learning environment for fourth-year Bachelor of Education students.

Within this ePortfolio-based environment, reflective prompts were developed and implemented based on the sections of the Enculturation Teaching Model, designed by Tishman, Jay, and Perkins (1993) to enhance higher-order thinking skills. This model includes (1) examples of good reflective practice, (2) opportunities for interaction among students and staff and (3) activities that target the skills of reflective practice. This article provides an abridged version of the implementation and results of this study as well as outlining the design principles that were generated. The design principles are provided as ideas that are transferrable to other electronic platforms including alternative ePortfolio programs.
